Introduction
************

Forward simulation of DNA sequences is a powerful tool for analyzing the impact 
of evolutionary forces on genetic variaiton.  Forward simulation can generate 
sequence data under arbitrarily complex models that include nautral selection 
as well as complex demography.  These models are difficult to handle
analytically, and other simulation frameworks such as the coalescent cannot 
provide the same level of generality. 

However, there remain some barriers to the adoption of population genetic 
simulators for many members of the genetics community. Simulation software 
tools can be daunting to master because of the vast number of input options 
and the density of the output data.    

sfs_coder is a python based front end to the popular forward simulation 
software SFS_CODE.  It allows python coders to easily execute and analyze 
simulations performed with SFS_CODE.  For beginning users and coders, it 
provides a number of useful cannonical models that are prepackaged and can be
accessed and analyzed with just a few lines of code.

For advanced users, sfs_coder provides a tool set to access the power of
SFS_CODE through a python based interface.  We encourage any interested users
to extend the code base that we provide and add any models that could be 
useful for the community. 

sfs_coder is currently under developement and will be released in a few 
months.  We don't expect these pages to get much traffic at the moment
but we have put them online for our development team. If you have stumbled
accross them and have any suggestions or would like to inquire about the 
development feel free to email Lawrence (uricchio@berkeley.edu).

sfs_coder will be free to use and distribute for personal or academic use.  
We hope that you will find it useful.


